# Streaming Data

This site provides documentation for this project.
Use the navigation to explore module-specific materials.

## How-To Guide

Many instructions are common to all our projects.

See
[⭐ **Workflow: Apply Example**](https://denisecase.github.io/pro-analytics-02/workflow-b-apply-example-project/)
to get these projects running on your machine.

## Project Documentation Pages (docs/)

- **Home** - this documentation landing page
- **Project Instructions** - instructions specific to this module
- **Your Files** - how to copy from examples and make them yours
- **Glossary** - project terms and concepts
- **API** - autogenerated look at the code interface

## Custom Project

### Dataset

This dataset covers sales data of a business, detailing about the orders themselves, products, and
the people buying them and where they're from. It includes the following fields. There are also 4
static reference tables called currencies, discount_codes, products, and regions that support this
data file. I did not change the data for my final result.

- order_id
- datetime
- region_id
- currency_code
- product_id
- unit_price
- quantity
- is_online
- customer_id
- ,is_new_customer
- device_type
- payment_method
- referral_source
- discount_code
- customer_note

### Kafka Messages

My producer is sending the following message types to the consumer. I used topic storage-05-karli
for this:

- order_id
- customer_id
- product_id
- region_id
- quantity
- unit-price
- payment_method

This is raw data being sent to the consumer to later validate and calculate. I did not change any
of the message fields in the consumer.

### Consumer Processing

The consumer receives these messages after subscribing to the kafka topic. It validated the fields,
checked quality rules outlined in the data validation scripts, and enriches my table with references.
It receives 20 messages in my script, and writes out to a CSV called consumed_sales_karli.csv and is
stored in DuckDB for later analyses if we so choose. This consumer processes fields, as well,
churning out ideas like subtotals, tax amounts, total sales, opportunity value of the order,
and classifies the order value.

### Experiments

For Phase 4, I added a custom function called validate_unit_pirce() to ensure price values are
numeric and at least 0. This hellps prevent invalid pricing from entering my data pipeline.

For Phase 5, I added a derived field called order_value_level. This classifies each sale as
low, medium, or high based on total order amount post-tax. This is calculated by consumer and
added to the enriched records.

### Results

The producer and consumer were both successful in their runs and both adapted well to the changes
made in the processing stages. The new order classification was added to the processed output.

### Interpretation

This streaming workflow demonstrated how this data can be transformed when moving through the pipeline.
Compared to the original example, I enhanced the project by adding custom rules on a business-focused
field.

This stream could help businesses monitor sales activity very closely, identifying any issues between
the store and the consumer quickly. The business can also prioritize what needs to be on front ends
of shelves or what inventory is drawing short due to high demand of product or what needs to be sold
more due to high customer value.
